hello everybody my name is J I'm one of
the expert IELTS teachers here at e to
language I'm gonna tell you a funny
little story I'm gonna give you like six
really important tips so I'm gonna give
you four at the start and two at the end
okay so you might have to watch this
right to the end okay so imagine if you
were like a really good English language
teacher and you went and sat the IELTS
not only just an English language
teacher
you were like an IELTS teacher then you
went and took the IELTS and you got this
back and if you look really closely for
writing you got seven point five ah this
is what happened to me when I took the
IELTS for the first time because I
didn't understand how I was scored
properly so what we're going to do in
this lesson is I'm going to show you and
demonstrate to you and help you to
visualize and understand how it is that
you're scored and six critical things
you need to keep in your mind on test
day and you shouldn't forget these six
critical things on testing while you're
writing your essay okay cool so the
first four are you are scored on topic
that you write on topic you are scored
also on structure that is the overall
structure and at the paragraph level as
well not only just at the paragraph
level but also at the sentence level so
like imagine like micro meso and macro
structures you're also scored on
vocabulary and grammar of course before
we push on if you're not yet a
subscriber to this YouTube channel which
is fabulous click that subscribe button
if you will okay so here we go these are
the what are they called they band
descriptors this is what the IELTS
examiner's are looking at while they're
looking at your writing they have like a
few minutes to mark your writing and
this is how they do it so let's look at
task response first or what I call topic
so imagine I'm the IELTS examiner and
I'm looking at your writing so I look
more closely at this and I think yeah
okay in your essay you addressed all
parts of the task well done that's
good you also presented a clear position
throughout the response very good yeah
okay fantastic and yeah you presented an
extended and supported your main ideas
but there was sort of a bit of a
tendency to over generalize and you
lacked a little bit of focus so for that
particular criterion for topic I'm gonna
give you a seven okay cool so far so
good
pretty straightforward so you've gotten
a seven for that one and imagine I give
you a seven for the rest of them as well
structure vocabulary and grammar so
what's your score going to be for
writing pretty straightforward what we
do if we're talking about something
horizontal is we give you an average so
I'm gonna calculate the average here the
average of seven and seven and seven and
seven divided by four is anyway whatever
not very good at maths you're gonna get
a seven easy what happens though if you
do this you get a seven for topic seven
for structure seven for vocabulary and a
six for grammar well again you're going
to get the average so it's going to be
27 divided by 4 that is seven and seven
and seven is 21 and then you go to six
so that's 27 we divide by the four
criteria you get six point seven five
however they do not round you up to
seven what they do is they round you
down so in fact you're going to get six
point five if this were to happen to you
okay fair enough so far so good you're
understanding what's going on with the
criteria and the scoring just wait it's
gonna get a little bit more complex and
interesting okay let's look more closely
we've looked at the horizontal what
happens horizontally in your scoring
let's look more deeply at this vertical
scoring because for grammar you're also
scored from zero one two three four five
six seven eight nine so let's do a
little scenario here so let's say I'm
the examiner I'm looking at your essay
and I've had a close look and you used a
variety of complex structures well done
and you produced frequent error
free sentences hooray and you have good
control of grammar and punctuation maybe
you made a few errors so I'm going to
give you a seven for grammar let's make
this story a little bit more interesting
let's say you produced frequent error
free sentences you've got good control
of grammar and you made a few
punctuation errors or something like
that but you only use a very limited
range of structures with only rare use
of subordinate clauses what this means
is that you didn't put into your essay
for example very many complex sentences
that is sentences that have a which or
in that type clause or one of those
interesting sentences that starts with
an although or in ads or something like
that if you want to learn more about
this you can watch the the video in the
description below which tells you a lot
about the importance of this okay but
let's imagine you did this now what's
your score going to be do we find an
average here or perhaps you get a seven
because you got two out of three were in
the seven category know what's going to
happen is you're going to be scored on
the lowest number here okay so whatever
you get doesn't matter if you get nine
and nine and then you get a four you're
going to get a four for grammar that's
how it works and let me show you the big
number four here so you're going to get
a four so if we go back to our overall
horizontal averaging of the scores this
is how it works you got a seven for
topic a seven for structure as seven for
vocabulary and you got a four for
grammar therefore if we calculate this
you got 25 points divided by four
criteria six point two five and remember
if it's at the point two five we don't
round up we round down therefore you're
going to get a six and like me when I
got my results that day I was like what
the hell how did I get seven point five
on writing and I'm guessing something
like this happened to me I'm guessing
that I didn't include
enough complex structures but there are
other ways that this can happen to you
for example you might write slightly
off-topic if you write slightly
off-topic you're going to be penalized
or in your writing task 1 for academic
if you don't include an overview or
bom-bom you're going to be penalized as
well so just keep all of that in mind
luckily and just-so can restore some
confidence back in your IELTS teacher
here I did take the IELTS again and
again and again and I eventually got an
8.5 for writing yeah it wasn't a 9 but
there you go I quit after that I retired
cool anyway hopefully that explains some
of the scoring that you get one of the
really frustrating things is when you do
get that score report back and it just
says 6 or 6.5 or whatever it is if you
didn't get the score you think why but
there's nothing to tell you why there's
some generic information about what 6
means but it's not personalized to you
so why don't when I talk to you about
now is why you should get some feedback
on your writing so you know exactly what
it is you're doing wrong what you're
doing right who cares that's fine what
are you doing wrong ok so why you should
get some feedback from e to language
comm well what it is that we do when we
mark your writing what you do is you go
onto the computer you submit your essay
or your writing task 1 through the
computer one of our expert IELTS
teachers is going to be responding to
that they're going to be marking it
these are trained experts right they
really know their stuff so what we do is
we look at the criteria for topic for
example and we have the little very high
to low scoring system here and what
we'll do is we're going to give you a
tick like very - this and medium for
that and low for that and and for this
one it was high and bla bla bla bla bla
and so what you'll be able to identify
extremely quickly is that oh my position
wasn't very clear this is the thing that
I need to work on before test day
more importantly is that not only do we
identify the particular issues that
you're making in your essay or in your
task one but we actually tell you what
to do to improve so we provide you with
videos or parts of the website that you
need to visit to focus on the particular
issues you have for example for articles
if you got low score for articles then
we'd give you links across to how you
can review the basics and do some work
on articles here ok now let me go back
because at the start I said I was going
to give you six critical tips and I sort
of showed you four that these are the
ones that you really need to think about
on testing and if I were to take the
IELTS again which perhaps I will these
are the six things in my mind that I
would definitely think about okay so
think more deeply about topic structure
of vocabulary and grammar because really
these are the critical hidden ones that
people forget people forget about
vocabulary range that is if there's a
like a key word in your essay you should
be thinking about synonyms and not
repeating the same word again and again
in the vocabulary criterion you will be
penalized if you don't show a wide
variety of grammar or no grammar
vocabulary like synonymous language
synonyms or paraphrases so when you're
writing your essay and you think hang on
I've used this particular word like six
times now start to think okay stop doing
that start to mix up your language a
little bit sorry mix up the variety of
your words a little bit but make sure
they're still precise because you still
are scored on vocabulary precision or
how accurate that word is so if you do
choose a synonym make sure it's a good
one the other thing that people get
penalised on is grammatical range and
that's what I just spoke about before
about using a variety of different
sentence types you really need to show
off your full gamut is that even a word
you're full variety or you're full
breadth of grammatical structures okay
so you want to write some simple
sentences some compounds and
compound-complex some complex pop a
conditional sentence in there maybe even
put a question sentence in there really
and if you're taking the computer-based
test which I highly recommend you
actually get enough time to go in and
really change your sentences around it's
far better than the paper-based test I
must say and of course and you'll always
be thinking about this you need to make
your grammar precise but these are the
two critical ones the vocab range that's
a star by the way and grammatical range
and always always always make sure that
you are on topic read that question
prompt again and again and again and
make sure you've answered all of it then
make sure anyway there's lots of
complexity here I can't give you it all
in a single video check out the website
at a two language comm all of the
methods lessons overview lessons
practice questions model essays writing
feedback live classes it's all there
cool there's one more thing I want to
show you if you are taking the
computer-based IELTS test you should
check out our IELTS mock test on e to
language comm it's a fully what is it
it's a fully computer delivered mock
test just like the IELTS mock test
obviously far less expensive and it's a
really good little investment if you
want to know what you're doing right and
wrong because in this you will also get
feedback on your writing as well as take
a live speaking mock test as well so
then what the live speaking mock test
happens like this and there's Alex and
it's done on Zoom which is a program
like Skype and as I've been talking
about throughout this video you'll get a
band score indication but more
importantly you're going to get that
feedback so you can identify what you're
doing wrong cool so what did we learn
well we learned about the complexity of
the IELTS scoring system we learned that
you get an average if you're going
horizontally if you look at those band
thingamajig EES vertically you get the
lowest one there
then I'll get the average of that that's
how you're scored in IELTS if you don't
know why you're getting low scores get
some feedback cool thanks for watching
my name is Jay
[Music]